how do you feel about cancer screenings
there's a lot of different methods out
there mammography needle biopsy and we
could go on and on if somebody has signs
and symptoms and they feel like they
might have cancer or their doctors
screening them what I'm getting at here
is is there a Continuum from
you know good
better best
when it comes to assessing and I've
heard of things like thermal imaging
that are less invasive or supposedly
how do you feel about all that well I
think any kind of Imaging
that does not
is non-invasive
could be potentially helpful
so
um a non-invasive Imaging like you said
thermal imaging they're trying to work
on on on blood biopsy liquid liquid
biopsy which I think the president's
moonshot project
I hate to call it that it's but he has a
a component in there for building
looking more into liquid biopsies where
you can take in the blood and look and
see if you have certain cancer markers
uh that might predict uh whether or not
uh you should have a certain type of
treatment but there's still a lot of
false positives and false negatives
associated with that I I think MRI pets
anything that you can use to get an
assessment my colleagues that are that
work in the area the Radiologists uh
these kinds of guys they're pretty sure
when they look at a a an image not a
hundred percent sure but maybe a pretty
high percentage sure to know whether
that mass that you're looking at is
malignant or not okay now the field that
determines that in order to make that
decision you need to take a biopsy of of
the tissue look at it under the
microscope and then confirm what the um
a radiologist has already uh predicted
that uh that yeah that's malignant
because I can look at the edges I can I
can look at the image the way it looks
in angles and and they can pretty much
determine whether this is bad or good
um or how bad it could be but the the
ultimate determination comes comes from
the biopsy material where a pathologist
looks at the the number and structure of
the cells my concern with that is that I
have read many many many many papers
where the very uh process of taking
sample from the tissue could provoke the
micro environment uh leading to a tumor
cell dissemination from the very
procedure to to look at the tissue to
determine whether or not it's malignant
now if it's not if it's a benign tumor
then you would never really need to S to
take a biopsy from it
if you could assess that it would be
benign you can just cut it out and
debulk it without really doing much else
but if it is malignant the last thing
you would want to do is take a biopsy of
that tissue leading to the process of
now spreading it through your body and
people say well it's very rare I agree I
didn't say it's very rare it's not
common
uh biopsy of patients tumors to cause it
to be a terminal malignant cancer is in
fact not common however there's enough
papers in the literature to say that it
can happen in multiple different cancers
not only brain cancer colon cancer
breast cancer uh all these different
kinds of cancers that I've seen where
they can they actually spread the tumor
cells around from biopsy yes it doesn't
happen it's not a common thing but what
what about the poor patients that dies
from that needlessly okay for that
person it's lights out that didn't need
to happen you know they used to have the
more solution procedure for uterine
polyps in women okay they pulled that
off the market why because it's like a
kind of a a lawnmower it grinds up the
polyps uh in the uterus and people were
getting metastatic cancer and dying from
the grinding up of the polyps because if
one of those polyps happened to be a
malignant polyp you're spreading the
malignant cells all over the place so so
they had to stop this morsellation
procedure that was exactly what I'm
talking about so you've got to be very
careful you don't want to stick the hive
when the bees are rolling and have the
bees come out you gotta you gotta get
rid of it before they they can come out
that's why I said if you see something
go on metabolic therapy see if it
disappears and if it doesn't disappear
and it becomes smaller the bulk it get
rid of it you know don't don't go and
chop around on it this kind of stuff
that's what I was getting at I'm glad
you're able to decipher there's a
Continuum from bad to good when it comes
to
screening which isn't even into the
therapy all the stuff we talked about
before which is another whole area
decipher through and figure out their
own path
you're absolutely right so everything
has to be done strategically
causing the least amount of stress and
harm to the patient under any conditions
and again each patient is different from
another patient and the sharp people who
understand screening can make those
decisions if they're trained to know how
to make these decisions and then be very
careful about their recommendations I
think a lot of people will benefit from
this or at least you won't let some
people die needlessly from from a lack
of knowledge
if you enjoyed that clip press here for
the full episode I'll see you over there
what I'm talking to you about almost
nobody in the field knows anything that
I'm saying here and how do I know that
because they're not using these
techniques and there's in their clinics
if they if they understood what I'm
saying they would be transitioning over
to this immediately